---
layout: default
title: about
---

{% include mission.md %}

*Workshops* are role-based curricula that advance a beginning practitioner to
the intermediate and the expert levels of craft. Some examples of our
workshops include Amateur Librarian, Academic Author, Media Archaeologist, and
Textual Scholar. These are curated by moderators, responsible for coverage and
quality of material.

*Toolkits* are the modular, domain-independent skillsets---individual lesson
plans and tutorials---necessary for contemporary knowledge work. In the realm
of the possible, we seek input from craftspeople who strive to own the means
of their intellectual labor, using tools and platforms free---to the utmost
extent possible---from extractive and exploitative practices. Foundational
toolkits are often shared among multiple workshops. All material in this
category is reviewed by at least two of our moderators and indicated as such
(we don't have this implemented yet).

*Sparks* are the integral atomic units---think of them as individual lessons
in a lesson plan---that make up our toolkits. Individual sparks do not
necessarily make sense on their own: they are usually collated into larger
groupings.

We welcome and credit all pull requests from the broader community: if you fix
an error, want to translate or contribute to any existing material please do
not hesitate to get in touch. Guidelines for contributors can be found here.

The Forge was founded with support from several sister communities including
Global Emergent Media Lab at Concordia University, Columbia University's
Studio at Butler Library, Price DH Lab at University of Pennsylvania, and
Memory of the World Collective, Centre for Disruptive Media at Coventry
University.
